# Abdi Hassan
# 05/02/2020
# Child and Adolescent Educational Attainment in Somalia
# Abstract
It is no doubt that education is one of the many pillars of a successful childhood and adolescence. In developed nations across the globe, education is a necessity, even a requirement, and understood to be a prerequisite to meaningfulness whether it be simple job attainment or some abstract form of societal contribution. Therefore, lack of education can be seen as creating an inability for one to contribute to society, to be meaningful, and to even just better their position. If we see human development through the lens of Amartya Sen and value the expansion of freedoms, then education is no doubt a priority. In fact, education is the 4th Sustainable Development Goal on the UN webpage as it is integral for development. An educated man (or woman) is a force for positive change as it means they can take advantage of opportunities and create opportunities and bolster a positive momentum in the exchange of ideas and communication with those around them and even beyond their immediate communities. It is also worth mentioning that “education” does not necessarily refer to the highest form of post-secondary achievement but rather simply literacy, numeracy, and the expansion of one’s ability to think critically. Thus the importance of a childhood and adolescent focus as opposed to the adult literacy approach that is usually pursued. 
Now, for a more specific glance at the problem in Somalia itself, we see many more obstacles in the pursuit of child and adolescent educational attainment than first meets the eye. For one, infrastructure. There just aren’t the proper property, plant, and equipment present for the goal to be realizable at, at least, the same proportions as the global average. Furthermore, there is a noticeable lack of human capital as well. With all this in mind, we can begin to form some semblance of a conceptualization of what we would want a realistic approach to the educational void in the nation to look like. We know we want to address the underserved amongst the underserved, that is, girls and the rural poor. We also know we must avoid ethnocentrism in our approach. The delivery of education in the nation can perhaps best be seen as a complex adaptive system and, thus, rigidity rejected. We know the country is dealing with a history of colonialism, dictatorship, and religious impact on education so it is beyond us to know what the effects of this will look like in the advent of a mass education system. Furthermore, we may want to remember these principles in any attempts to scale said system. What works for one local or one tribe may not be optimal for another and instead, a case by case, evaluate and restrategize, approach may be more favorable.
